### In this JupyterNoteBook, we applied several programming skills to study a biological dataset. We performed some statistical analysis on the dataset. Then, we used a machine learning supervised approach named Gaussian Naive-Bayes classifier, intending to classify compounds as active or inactive.
### The dataset was from a previous publication () in which the authors reported experimental and computational (using the FEP method) binding free energies (deltaG) for different molecular targets interacting with several bioactive compounds. The deltaG values from the experiment and computational method were compared using regression analysis. The variance and covariance were calculated for the whole data in two sets of computational calculations.
### In the final step, the dataset is complemented with additional features (columns) corresponding to physicochemical descriptors obtained from chemical structures (in SMILE format) using RDkit software.  The calculated descriptors were MW, LogP, TPSA, HBD, HBA, volume, natoms, rotatablebonds, and nviolations.  Those descriptors are Lipinski rules and allow for predicting drug compounds' oral bioavailability. 
### Using those additional nine features, it was possible to implement a classification model known as Gaussian Naive Bayes (NB), which allowed us to train the NB model to classify active and inactive compounds. The model was tested using 30% of the dataset and gave metrics like accuracy and F1-score that suggest that the model has good predictive capabilities for this dataset.

